### Introduction
_Bacteriophages are the most abundant entities on earth. These bacterial viruses have genetic material in the form of either DNA or RNA, encapsidated by a protein coat. The capsid is attached to a tail which has fibers, used for attachments to receptors on bacterial cell surface. Most of the phages have polyhedral capsid except filamentous phages. Phages infect bacteria and can propagate in two possible ways; lytic life cycle and lysogenic life cycle. When phages multiply vegetatively they kill their hosts and the life cycle is referred to as lytic life cycle. On the other hand some phages known as temperate phages can grow vegetatively and can integrate their genome into host chromosome replicating with the host for many generations. If induction to some harsh conditions like ultraviolet (UV) radiations occurs then the prophage will escape via lysis of bacteria. After the discovery of bacteriophages in early 20th century many researchers thought about their (phages) potential of killing bacteria, which could undoubtedly make them possible therapeutic agents. But after World War II when antibiotics were discovered, this natural potential therapeutic agent got little attention and was only considered as a research tool for many years. Bacteriophages have contributed a lot to the field of molecular biology and biotechnology and are still playing its part. Many mysteries of molecular biology are solved by bacteriophages. Today when everything is much more advanced than ever before, bacteriophages are getting enormous amount of attention due to their potential to be used as antibacterials, phage display systems, and vehicles for vaccines delivery. They have also been used for diagnostic purposes (phage typing) as well_.

Cited: Virology Journal volume 9, Article number: 9 (2012)
